sell faster sale safer in association
with pant aeneas welcome to sell faster
sale safer a series of videos presented
by professional solo sailor pip hair
sailing with the spinnaker can be fun
and exhilarating but sometimes with
limited crewmembers it may seem more
hassle than it's worth launching the
spinnaker together with fond a globe
skipper Brian Thompson we're going to
take you through step by step launching
the spinnaker getting it out of the bag
and flying so helping you get the most
out of your boats and great conditions
don't rush into hoisting the spinnaker
make sure the boats well prepared before
you go for the hoist so identify which
winches you need in the cockpit make
sure they're clear go and attach the
spinnaker on I'll put the fore deck set
the boat to a good angle to hoist the
spinnaker so that's around 160 165
degrees true a good safe downwind angle
if you're hoisting the spinnaker without
willing it or without using the snuffer
then it's a good idea to leave the jib
in place and hoist it from behind the
jib so acting as a blanket stopping the
spinnaker from filling before it gets to
the top once you're ready get the pole
up to the right height and then pull on
the guy until you can see that windward
clue just poking out from behind the
fourth day once you've got the guy in
position you're ready to go on the
halyard the halyard should go up in one
smooth movement to the top once the
halyard up you can then sheet on and go
and if you were using a head sail while
your head sail or drop it down to the
deck for the spinnaker to fill properly
when hoisting an asymmetric spinnaker or
cruising chutes we basically follow the
same procedure although there's no pole
involved and the first line to come on
is the tack line we're about to hoist
our asymmetric sail in a snuffer one
technique that Bryan and I both use when
single-handed is to hoist the snuffer on
the windward side of the jib this stops
it from falling in the water or getting
caught on the guardrails as it goes up
once the snuff is up we can flick it
round to the lured side of the jib then
roll the jib away
hoist up the snuffer and off we go ready
to go Bryan is just boosting snuff for
now on the wind with side of the jib
it's getting up nice and easily I'm now
just going to put a little bit at the
tap plying on
and Brian's flicking the sucker round to
the Luud side of the jib now we're ready
to fill the jib and when that jib is
nicely rolled away Brian will be ready
to lift the sock on the snuper yep so
now we're hoisting the sock on the snuff
up the stock goes up I'm ready to sheet
on
sell faster sale safer an association
with pant aeneas